Document pipeline configuration files v2.0 (#28)
ConduitIO/conduit-site: docs/pipeline-configuration-files/provisioning.mdx

---
title: 'Provisioning'
sidebar_position: 1
---

## Pipelines Directory

When Conduit starts, it will search for all files ending with `.yml` or `.yaml` in folder `./pipelines` and its
sub-folders. It will parse the configuration files and provision the pipelines defined in them.

> If you want Conduit to search a different directory, or want to provision a single file, you can specify the CLI flag

Reviewer: This is implying that you can point `-pipelines.path` to a single file? Is that the case?

Author: Yup, that's right!

Reviewer: yeah I tested it myself and came back to just delete this.

`pipelines.path` and point to your file or directory:

```shell
./conduit -pipelines.path /path/to/my-directory
```

If the directory does not exist, Conduit will fail with the error `"pipelines.path" config value is invalid`.

## Ignored errors

Conduit will try to provision all pipelines regardless of the errors it may encounter while going through the
configuration files. Invalid configuration files will be ignored (e.g. files that miss a mandatory field or have an
invalid configuration value) and won't impact the provisioning of valid configuration files. Conduit will log a warning
for every error it encounters during this process.

> You need to be careful when choosing IDs for your pipelines, connectors and processors. Each pipeline needs to get a

Reviewer: Feels like this deserves it's own heading rather than being buried under "ignored errors." It is a pretty important detail.

unique pipeline ID, otherwise all pipelines with the same ID will be ignored. If a pipeline contains connectors or
processors with the same ID, they will be ignored as well.

**_Note_**: Connector IDs and processor IDs will be prefixed with the parent ID. In case of a connector this means the
pipeline ID will be attached as a prefix to the connector ID (e.g. `pipelineID:connectorID`). Similarly, a pipeline
processor's ID will be prefixed with the pipeline ID (e.g. `pipelineID:processorID`) and a connector processor's ID will
be prefixed with the connector ID (e.g. `pipelineID:connectorID:processorID`). This ensures that connector and processor
IDs are globally unique as long as the pipeline ID is unique.

## Pipelines Immutability

Pipelines provisioned by configuration files are **immutable**, any updates needed on a provisioned pipeline have to be

> done through the configuration file. You can still stop or start the pipeline through the UI or API.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: it feels that "immutable" is not quite technically correct, given that they are mutable, but the changes are restricted to files.

Reviewer 3: we could say:
```suggestion
Pipelines provisioned by configuration files are **immutable** through the API, any updates needed on a provisioned pipeline have to be
done through the configuration files. You can only stop or start the pipeline through the UI or API.
```

Author: Right, I'll try to rephrase it 👍

files. Conduit will log a warning for every error it encounters during this
process.

## Pipelines need unique IDs

You need to be careful when choosing IDs for your pipelines, connectors and
processors. Each pipeline needs to get a unique pipeline ID, otherwise all
pipelines with the same ID will be ignored. If a pipeline contains connectors or
processors with the same ID, they will be ignored as well.

**_Note_**: Connector IDs and processor IDs will be prefixed with the parent ID.
In case of a connector this means the pipeline ID will be attached as a prefix
to the connector ID (e.g. `pipelineID:connectorID`). Similarly, a pipeline
processor's ID will be prefixed with the pipeline ID (e.g.
`pipelineID:processorID`) and a connector processor's ID will be prefixed with
the connector ID (e.g. `pipelineID:connectorID:processorID`). This ensures that
connector and processor IDs are globally unique as long as the pipeline ID is
unique.

## Environment variables

Conduit injects environment variables in pipeline configuration files. To
specify a value using an environment variable, wrap the name of the variable in

> `${}` (e.g. `${MY_ENV_VAR}`). Any value in the configuration can be injected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`${}` (e.g. `${MY_ENV_VAR}`). Any value in the configuration file can be injected
```
